Improve the license guide (#771)
conduktor/conduktor-docs: docs/gateway/get-started/license-management.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
title: Manage your license
description: Manage your Conduktor license for the Gateway
---

## Apply your license

> In order to enjoy your Enterprise Gateway plan, you'll have to configure all your Gateways to use the license key we provided to you.

Reviewer: "clusters" :-)

> In order to enjoy your Enterprise Gateway plan, you'll have to configure all your Gateways to use the license key we provided to you.

Author: You don't configure the Gateway cluster, but you configure every single Gateway container individually.

```suggestion
In order to enjoy your Enterprise Gateway plan, you'll have to configure every single Gateway container to use the license key we provided to you.
```

> In order to enjoy your Enterprise Gateway plan, you'll have to configure all your Gateways to use the license key we provided to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to enjoy your Enterprise Gateway plan, you'll have to configure every Gateway container to use the license key we provided to you.
```

GATEWAY_LICENSE_KEY="YOUR_LICENSE_HERE"
```

## Verify your license

### In Kafka

> You can check that your license has been used to launch the Gateway by looking at the license internal topic it has created.

Reviewer 2: Can we name it here too?

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### In the Gateway logs

You can check that your license has been applied correctly by looking at the Gateway logs.

When the Gateway starts, it will log the license information:

:::note[Gateway logs]
[INFO] [PersistentLicenseService:114] - Applied new license with expiry: 2026-06-29T00:00:00.000Z

[INFO] [PersistentLicenseService:86] - Enterprise license found, valid until: 2026-06-29T00:00:00.000Z
:::

### In the Gateway metrics

> You can monitor the days left before expiration using this metric from the [Gateway metrics endpoint](/gateway/reference/monitoring/#how-to-access-prometheus-metrics-from-gateway): `gateway.license.remaining_days`

Author: afaik it's only /metrics + grep

## License expiration

**One week before expiration**, you'll see this warning in your logs:

> :::note[License expiration warning]

Reviewer 2: Should we recommend alerting on this log entry, or metric being monitored. Feel we should have some recommendation here form us.

License will expire in less than X day(s)! You need to renew your license to continue using Conduktor Gateway. Checkout our documentation (https://docs.conduktor.io/gateway/get-started/license-management/) if unsure how to set the license.
:::

> **After expiration**, the Gateway will continue running and log a warning every hour that your license has expired:

Author: Forever, until you restart it
